# TIL 240703

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 3 Django & Project 1 Wiki

### [URL dispather](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/http/urls/)
```
from django.urls import path

from . import views

app_name = "encyclopedia"
urlpatterns = [
    path("", views.index, name="index"),
    path("wiki/<str:title>", views.visit_entry, name="entry"),
    path("search/", views.search_entry, name="search"),
    path("create/", views.creat_new_page, name="create"),
    path("edit/<str:title>", views.edit_entry, name="edit"),
    path("random/", views.visit_random_page, name="random"),
]
```
- This `urls.py` file configures all urls for _encyclopedia_ app that I implemented.
- For each desired URL, add an item to the _urlpatterns_ list that contains a call to the path function with two or three arguments: 
  - A string represents the URL path.
  - Function from `views.py` that we wish to call when that URL is visited.
  - Optionally a name for the path.
- To capture a value from the URL, use angle brackets. Like this: `"wiki/<str:title>"`.
- Captured values can optionally include a converter type. For example, `<str:title>`
- There is no need to add a leading slash, because every URL has that. It's `wiki`, not `/wiki`

```
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import include, path

urlpatterns = [
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
    path('', include("encyclopedia.urls"))
]
```
- To be able to include all of the paths from the urls.py file within _encyclopedia_ application. To do this, we write: include("APP_NAME.urls"), where include is a function we gain access to by also importing include from django.urls as shown in the urls.py above
- Whenever Django encounters [include()](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/urls/#django.urls.include), it chops off whatever part of the URL matched up to that point and sends the remaining string to the included URLconf for further processing.

**[How Django processes a request](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/http/urls/#how-django-processes-a-request)**

1. Django determines the root URLconf moudle to use.
2. Django loads that Python module and looks for _urlpatterns_. This should be a sequense of django.urls.path()
3. Django runs through each URL pattern, in order, and stops at the first one that matches the requested URL.
4. Once one of the URL pattern matches, Django imports and calls the given view.
5. If no URL patterns matches, or if an exception is raised during any point in this process, Django invokes an appropriate error-handling view.

### [Django shortcut functions](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/http/shortcuts/) ###

**[render()](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/http/shortcuts/#render)**
- Combines a given template with a given context dictionary and reutnrs _HttpResponse_ object with that rendered text.

An example code in `views.py`
```
def visit_entry(request, title):
    # visit each entry by urls(example: wiki/TITLE)
    try:
        content = markdown2.markdown(util.get_entry(title))
    except TypeError:
        content = None

    return render(request, "encyclopedia/entry.html", {
        "title_of_entry": title,
        "content": content
    })
```
 - Arguments
   - request(required) : The request used to generate this response.
   - template_name(required) : The full name of a template to use or sequence of template names.
   - context(optional) : A dictionary of values to add to the template context.

### [Built-in template tags | url argument](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/templates/builtins/#url) ### 
**url**
- Return an absolute path reference(a URL without domain name. Like this: `wiki/<str:title>`) matching a given view and optional parameters.
```
<a href="{% url 'encyclopedia:entry' entry %}"> {{entry}} </a>
```
- The first argument is a URL pattern name. It can be a quoted literal or other context variable.
- Additional arguments are optional and should be space-seperated values that will be used as arguments in the URL.(`{% url 'encyclopedia:entry' entry %}`)
- If you'd like to retrieve a namespaced URL, specify the fully qualified name.(`'encyclopedia:entry'`)

### [Working with form](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/)
**HTML forms**
- In HTML, a form is a collection of elements inside `<form>...</form>` that allow a visitor to do thing like search the entry and then send that information back to the server like below:

```
<form action="{% url 'encyclopedia:search' %}" method="get">
    <input class="search" type="text" name="q" placeholder="Search Encyclopedia">
</form>
```
- A form must specify two things:
  - where : the URL to which the data corresponding to the user's input should be returned.
  - how : the HTTP method the data should be returned by.
- In the above code, a user uses `input` element to search query that is entered. **GET** bundles the submitted data into a string, and uses this to compose a URL. The URL contains the address where the data must be sent, as well as the data keys and values. Like this `http://127.0.0.1:8000/search/?q=python`.