# TIL 240719

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 4 SQL, Models, and Migrations & Project 2 Commerce

## [Review Commerce project](https://cs50.harvard.edu/web/2020/projects/2/commerce/)

## [Models](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/db/models/)

**Model methods**
- Define custom methods on a model to add custom “row-level” functionality to your objects.
- Model methods act on a particular model instance.

`__str()__`
- A Python “magic method” that returns a string representation of any object.
- This is what Python and Django will use whenever a model instance needs to be coerced and displayed as a plain string.
- Most notably, to display an object in the Django admin site and as the value inserted into a template when it displays an object.

## [Creating forms from models(A part of Create Listing)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/modelforms/)

**ModelForm**
- When I want to create a form that lets people submit listing,  it would be redundant to define the field types in my form, because I’ve already defined the fields in my model.
- For this reason, Django provides a helper class that lets you create a Form class from a Django model.
```
models.py

class AuctionListings(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
    description = models.TextField(max_length=1000)
    starting_bid = models.FloatField()
    seller = models.ForeignKey(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="listings")
    category = models.ForeignKey(AuctionCategories, on_delete=models.PROTECT, related_name="listings", blank=True, null=True)
    image = models.URLField(blank=True)
    active = models.BooleanField(default=True)
    date_created = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
```

```
forms.py

class ListingForm(ModelForm):

    class Meta:
        model = AuctionListings
        fields = ["title", "description", "starting_bid", "category", "image"]
```

```
views.py

@login_required(login_url="auctions:login")
def create_listing(request):
    if request.method == "POST":
        # Create a form instance from POST data.
        listing_form = ListingForm(request.POST)
        # Validation for ModelForm
        if listing_form.is_valid():
        # Save a new AuctionListing object from the form's data.
        new_listing = listing_form.save(commit=False)
        # Instantiate AuctionListing model with initial values for the missing.
            user_name = request.user.get_username()
            user = User.objects.get(username=user_name)
            new_listing.seller = user
            try:
                new_listing.full_clean()
            except ValidationError as e:
                form = ListingForm()
                return render(request, "auctions/create.html", {
                    "form": form,
                    "error_messages": e.message_dict
                })
            else:
                new_listing.save()
                return render(request, "auctions/index.html", {
                    "active_listings": AuctionListings.objects.filter(active=True)
                    })
        else:
            return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("auctions:login"))
    else:
        form = ListingForm()
        return render(request, "auctions/create.html", {
            "form": form
        })
```

**[Field types](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/modelforms/#field-types)**
- The generated Form class will have a form field for every model field specified, in the order specified in the fields attribute.
- Each model field has a corresponding default form field.
- The form field’s ***label*** is set to the ***verbose_name*** of the model field, with the first character capitalized.

**Validation on a ModelForm**
- There are two main steps involved in validating a **ModelForm**:
  1. Validating the form
  2. Validating the model instance
- Just like normal form validation, model form validation is triggered implicitly when calling `is_valid()`.

**The `save()` method**
- This method creates and saves a database object from the data bound to the form.
- This `save()` method accepts an optional commit keyword argument, which accepts either **True** or **False**.
- If I call `save()` with `commit=False`, then it will return an object that hasn’t yet been saved to the database.
- In this case, it’s up to you to call `save()` on the resulting model instance. 
- This is useful if you want to do custom processing on the object before saving it.

**Selecting the fields to use**
- It is strongly recommended that you explicitly set **all fields** that should be edited in the form using the fields attribute. Failure to do so can easily lead to security problems when a form unexpectedly allows a user to set certain fields, especially when new fields are added to a model.

### [QuerySet API reference](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/models/querysets/#exists)

**Methods that return new QuerySets**
- Django provides a range of QuerySet refinement methods that modify either the types of results returned by the QuerySet or the way its SQL query is executed.

**`filter(*args, **kwargs)`**
- Returns a new QuerySet containing objects that match the given lookup parameters.

**Method that do not return QuerySets**
- The following QuerySet methods evaluate the QuerySet and return something other than a QuerySet.
- These methods do not use a cache. Rather, they query the database each time they’re called.
- Because these methods evaluate the **QuerySet**, they are blocking calls, and so their main (synchronous) versions cannot be called from asynchronous code. For this reason, each has a corresponding asynchronous version with an `a` prefix.

**`get(*args, **kwargs)`**
- Returns the object matching the given lookup parameters.
- You should use lookups that are guaranteed unique, such as the primary key or fields in a unique constraint.
- If `get()` doesn’t find any object, it raises a **Model.DoesNotExist** exception.
- If `get()` finds more than one object, it raises a **Model.MultipleObjectsReturned** exception.