# TIL 240706

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 3 Django & Project 1 Wiki

### [Request and response objects](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/request-response/)
- Django uses request and response objects to pass state through the system.
- When a page is requested, Django creates an HttpRequest object that contains meta data about the request.
- Then Django loads the appropriate view, passing the HttpRequest as the first arguemnt to the view function.
- Each view is responsible for returning an HttpResponse object.

**HttpResponse subclass**
- Django incldues a number of HttpResponse subclass that handle different type of HTTP responses.

```
def visit_random_page(request):
    entries = util.list_entries()
    choice = random.randrange(len(entries))
    title = entries[choice]
    
    return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("encyclopedia:entry", args=[title]))
```

_class_ `HttpResponseRedirect`
- The first argument to the constructor is required - the path to redirect to.
- This can be:
  1. A fully qualified URL(e.g. 'http://127.0.0.1:8000/create/')
  2. An absolute path with no domain(e.g. '/create/')
  3. Even relative path(e.g. 'create/')
     - The client browser will reconstruct the full URL itself according to the current path.

### [django.urls utility functions](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/urlresolvers/)

**[reverse()](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/urlresolvers/#reverse)**

**reverse**(_viewname_, _urlconf=None_, _args=None_, _kwargs=None_, _current_app=None_)

- **viewname** can be a URL pattern name or the callable view obejct.
- If the URL accepts arguments, you may pass them in args. For example:

`return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("encyclopedia:entry", args=[title]))`
- You can also pass kwargs instead of args. For example:

`return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("encyclopedia:entry", kargs={"title": title}))`
- `args` and `kwargs` cannot be passed to `reverse()` at the same time.
- The **current_app** argument provides a hint to the resolver indicating the application to which the currently executing view belongs. This **current_app** argument is used as a hint to resolve application namespaces into URLs on specific application instances.

### Sessions
- Are a way to store unique data on the server side for each new visit to a website.
- The session framework stores data on the server side and abstracts the sending and receiving of cookies. Cookies contain a session ID.

**Enabling sessions**
- Edit the **MIDDLEWARE** setting and make sure it contains `'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware'`. The default _settings.py_ created by django-admin startproject has **SessionMiddleware** activated.
- run `manage.py migrate` to install the single database table that stores session data.

**Using sessions in views**
- When **SessionMiddleware** is activated, each **HttpRequest** object will have a session attribute, which is a dictionary-like object.
- Being able to read it and write to `request.session` at any point in your view.