# TIL 240719

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 4 SQL, Models, and Migrations & Project 2 Commerce

## Review Commerce project

## [Models](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/db/models/)
```
class AuctionListings(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
    description = models.TextField(max_length=1000)
    starting_bid = models.FloatField()
    seller = models.ForeignKey(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="listings")
    category = models.ForeignKey(AuctionCategories, on_delete=models.PROTECT, related_name="listings", blank=True, null=True)
    image = models.URLField(blank=True)
    active = models.BooleanField(default=True)
    date_created = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)

    def __str__(self) -> str:
        return self.title
```

### Fields
- The most important part of a model is the list of database fields it defines.
- Fields are specified by class attributes.

**Field types**
- Each field in my model should be an instance of the appropriate ***Field*** class.
- Django uses the field class types to determine a few things:
  - The column type, which tells the database what kind of data to store(e.g. INTEGER, VARCHR, TEXT).
  - The default HTML widget to use when rendering a form field(e.g. `<input type="text"`, `<select>`).
  - The minimal validation requirements, used in Django's admin and in automatically-generated forms.
  - [Modle field reference](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/models/fields/#model-field-types)

**Field options**
- Each field takes a certain set of field-specific arguments.
- For example, `CharField` require a `max_langth` argument which specifies the size of the ***VARCHAR*** database field used to store data.
- There’s also a set of common arguments available to all field types. All are optional. A quick summary of the most often-used ones:
  - `null` : If **True**, Django will store empty values as NULL in the database. Default is **False**.
  - `blank` : If **True**, the field is allowed to be blank. Default is **False**.

  > [!NOTE]
  > Note that this is different than null. null is purely database-related, whereas blank is validation-related. If a field has blank=True, form validation will allow entry of an empty value. If a field has blank=False, the field will be required.

**Automatic primary key fields**
- By default, Django gives each model an auto-incrementing primary key with the type specified per app in **AppConfig.default_auto_field**.
- If you’d like to specify a custom primary key, specify `primary_key=True` on one of your fields. If Django sees you’ve explicitly set **Field.primary_key**, it won’t add the automatic id column.
> [!CAUTION]
> Each model requires exactly one field to have `primary_key=True` (either explicitly declared or automatically added).


**Relationships**
- Clearly, the power of relational databases lies in relating tables to each other. 

**Many-to-one relationships**
- To define a many-to-one relationship, use **django.db.models.ForeignKey**.
-  I can use it just like any other **Field** type.
- `ForeignKey` requires a positional argument: the class to which the model is related.
- For example:
```
class AuctionListings(models.Model):
    ...
    seller = models.ForeignKey(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="listings")
    ...

class User(AbstractUser):
    def __str__(self) -> str:
        return self.username
```
- If an `AuctionsListings` model has a `seller` – that is, a `seller` can lists multiple `AuctionsListings` but each `AuctionsListings` only has one `seller`.
- `seller` means a `User` model.
> [!TIP]
> NEW TO KNOW!
> It’s suggested, but not required, that the name of a `ForeignKey` field  be the name of the model, lowercase.