# TIL 240719

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 4 SQL, Models, and Migrations & Project 2 Commerce

## Review Commerce project

### [Using the Django authentication system(Related to Register)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/auth/default/)

```
models.py

class User(AbstractUser):
    def __str__(self) -> str:
        return self.username
```
- User model that represents each user of the application.
- It inherits from `AbstractUser` that be able to set up a custom user model.

**User objects**
- Are the core of the authentications system.
- Typically represent the people interacting with your site.
- Are used to enable things like restricting access, registering user profiles, associating content with creators etc.
- The primary attributes of the default user are:
  - username
  - password
  - email
  - first_name
  - last_name

**Creating users**
```
try:
    user = User.objects.create_user(username, email, password)
    user.save()
except IntegrityError:
    return render(request, "auctions/register.html", {
        "message": "Username already taken."
    })
login(request, user)
return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("auctions:index"))
```
[create_user(username, email=None, password=None, **extra_fields)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/contrib/auth/#django.contrib.auth.models.UserManager.create_user)
- Creates, saves and returns a User.
- The `username` and `password` are set as given. 
- The domain portion of email is automatically converted to lowercase
- The returned User object will have `is_active` set to `True`.
- If no password is provided, `set_unusable_password()` will be called.

**Creating superuser**
- A superuser account has all permissions.

`python manage.py createsuperuser --username=super --email=super@example.com`
- You will be prompted for a password. After you enter one, the user will be created immediately.

### Login
```
def login_view(request):
    if request.method == "POST":

        # Attempt to sign user in
        username = request.POST["username"]
        password = request.POST["password"]
        user = authenticate(request, username=username, password=password)

        # Check if authentication successful
        if user is not None:
            login(request, user)
            return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("auctions:index"))
        else:
            return render(request, "auctions/login.html", {
                "message": "Invalid username and/or password."
            })
    else:
        return render(request, "auctions/login.html")
```

**Authenticating users**

[authenticate(request=None, **credentials)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.authenticate)
- Use `authenticate()` to verify a set of credentials.
-  It takes credentials as keyword arguments, ***username*** and ***password*** for the default case.
-  Returns a **User** object if the credentials are valid for a backend.
- If the credentials aren’t valid for any backend or if a backend raises ***PermissionDenied***, it returns None.
- ***request*** is an optional ***HttpRequest*** which is passed on the `authenticate()` method of the authentication backends.

**How to log a user in**
- If you have an authenticated user you want to attach to the current session - this is done with a `login()` function.

[login(request, user, backend=None)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.login)
- To log a user in, from a view, use `login()`.
- It takes an ***HttpRequest*** object and a ***User*** object.
- `login()` saves the user’s ID in the session, using Django’s session framework.

### Logout
```
def logout_view(request):
    logout(request)
    return HttpResponseRedirect(reverse("auctions:index"))
```
[logout(request)](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/auth/default/#django.contrib.auth.logout)

- To log out a user who has been logged in via `django.contrib.auth.login()`, use `django.contrib.auth.logout()` within your view.
- It takes an HttpRequest object and has no return value.
- `logout()` doesn’t throw any errors if the user wasn’t logged in.
- When you call `logout()`, the session data for the current request is completely cleaned out. All existing data is removed. This is to prevent another person from using the same web browser to log in and have access to the previous user’s session data.