# TIL 240819

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 6 User Interfaces

### User Interfaces

- Is how visitors to a web page interact with that page.

### Single Page Applications

- One major advantage of doing this is that we only need to modify the part of the page that is actually changing.
- We can create a site where we can load new data from a server without reloading our entire HTML page.
- One disadvantage of a single page application though is that the URL is less informative. (The URL remains the same even when we switch from section to section.)

**JavaScript History API**
- Provides access to the browser's session history through the `history` global object.
- It exposes useful methods and properties that let we navigate back and forth through the user's history.
- This API allows us to push information to our browser history and update the URL manually. 

**`history.pushState`**
- This function adds a new element to our browsing history based on three arguments:
  
  1. Any data associated with the state.
  2. A title parameter ignored by most web browsers.
  3. What should be displayed in the URL.

```
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
    document.querySelectorAll('button').forEach(button => {
        button.onclick = function() {
            const section = this.dataset.section;

            // Add the current state to the history
            history.pushState({section: section}, "", `section${section}`);
            showSection(section);
        };
    });
});
```

### Scroll

**JavaScript Window**
- The `window` object is supported by all browsers. It represents the browser's window.
- All global **JavaScript** objects, functions, and variables automatically become members of the `window` object.

**Window Size**
- `window.innerWidth`: Width of window in pixels
- `window.innerHeight`: Height of window in pixels

**Scrolling**
- While the window represents what is currently visible to the user, the document refers to the entire web page, which is often much larger than the window, forcing the user to scroll up and down to see the page’s contents.
- To work with our scrolling, we have access to other variables:
  - `window.scrollY`: How many pixels we have scrolled from the top of the page
  - `document.body.offsetHeight`: The height in pixels of the entire document.
- We can use these measures to determine whether or not the user has scrolled to the end of a page using the comparison `window.scrollY + window.innerHeight >= document.body.offsetHeight`.