# TIL 240813

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 5 JavaScript & Project 3 Mail

### JavaScript

- Will allow us to run code on the **client side**, meaning no interaction with the server is necessary while it’s running, allowing our websites to become much more **interactive**.
- In order to add some JavaScript to our webpage, we can add a pair of `<script>` tags somewhere in our HTML page.
- `<script>` tags signal to the broswer that anything we write in between the two tags is JavaScript code we wish to excute when a user visits our site.

```
<script src="{% static 'mail/inbox.js' %}"></script>
```

**Seperating JavaScript into a .js file**
1. Write all of your JavaScript code in a separate file ending in `.js`, maybe `index.js`.
2. Add a src attribute to the `<script>` tag that points to this new file.

- Having JavaScript in a separate file is useful for a number of reasons:
  - **Visual appeal**: Our individual HTML and JavaScript files become more readable.
  - **Access among HTML files**: Now we can have multiple HTML files that all share the same JavaScript.
  - **Collaboration**: We can now easily have one person work on the JavaScript while another works on HTML.
  - **Importing**: We are able to import JavaScript libraries that other people have already written. For example Bootstrap has their own JavaScript library you can include to make your site more interactive.

### Events

- One feature of JavaScript that makes it helpful for web programming is that it supports **Event-Driven Programming**.
- **Event-Driven Programming** is a programming paradigm that centers around the detection of events, and the actions that should be taken when an event is detected.
- An event can be almost anything including a button being clicked, the cursor being moved, a response being typed, or a page being loaded.


### Variables

- JavaScript is a programming language has variables.
  - var : used to define a variable globally. `var age = 20;`
  - let : used to define a variable that is limited in scope to the current block such as a function or loop. `let counter = 1;`
  - const : used to define a value that will not change. `const PI = 3.14;`


### querySelector

- `document.querySelector` searches for and returns elements of the DOM.
```
let inbox_container = document.querySelector('#inbox-container');
```
- Then, to manipulate the element we’ve recently found, we can append `<div>` into its:
```
inbox_container.append(inbox_row);
```

**Conditional Statements**

-  Notice that in JavaScript, we use `===` as a stronger comparison between two items which also checks that the objects are of the same type. 
```
if (mailbox === 'inbox') {
      archive_button.style.display = 'block';
      archive_button.innerHTML = 'Archive';
    } else if (mailbox === 'archive') {
      archive_button.style.display = 'block';
      archive_button.innerHTML = 'Unarchive';
    } else {
      archive_button.style.display = 'none';
    }
```

### DOM Manipulation

**Template literals**
- In JavaScript, to format a string to customize the message, we can use **template literals**
- **Template literals** requre that there are backticks (\`) around the entire expression and a `$` and curly braces around any substitutions.

```
email_sender.innerHTML = `<b>From: </b>${email.sender}`;
```

**addEventListener**
- This function takes in two arguments:
  - An event to listen for (eg: `click`)
  - A function to run when the event is detected

```
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {

  // Use buttons to toggle between views
  document.querySelector('#inbox').addEventListener('click', () => load_mailbox('inbox'));
  document.querySelector('#sent').addEventListener('click', () => load_mailbox('sent'));
  document.querySelector('#archived').addEventListener('click', () => load_mailbox('archive'));
  document.querySelector('#compose').addEventListener('click', compose_email);

  // Use submit button to send an email
  document.querySelector('#compose-form').onsubmit = send_email;
  
  // By default, load the inbox
  load_mailbox('inbox');
});
```
- We can use the function to only run the code once all content has loaded.
- The function above is actually an anonymous function (a function without a name: eg. `function()`)