# TIL 240814

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 5 JavaScript & Project 3 Mail

### JavaScript Console

- The console is a useful tool for testing out small bits of code and debugging.
- You can write and run **JavaScript** code in the console, which can be found by inspecting element in your web browser and then clicking console.
- One useful tool for debugging is printing to the console, which you can do using the `console.log` function.


### Arrow Functions

- **JavaScript** now gives us the ability to use **Arrow Functions** where we have an input (or parentheses when there’s no input) followed by `=>` followed by some code to be run.
```
fetch(`/emails/${email_id}`, {
    method: 'PUT',
    body: JSON.stringify({
        archived: status
    })
  })
  .then(result => {
    console.log(result);
    load_mailbox('inbox');
  })
```

**this**
- In **JavaScript**, the `this` keyword refers to an **object**.

1. In a method
   - When used in an object method, this refers to the object.
2. Alone
   - When used alone, this refers to the global object.
   - Because this is running in the global scope. In a browser window the global object is **[object Window]**
3. In a function (Default)
   - In a function, the global object is the default binding for `this`.
   - In a browser window the global object is **[object Window]**.
4. In a function (Strict)
   - **JavaScript** ***strict*** mode does not allow default binding.
   - So, when used in a function, in strict mode, `this` is **undefined**.
5. In Event Handlers
   - In HTML event handlers, `this` refers to the **HTML element** that received the event.
6. With an **Arrow Functions**
   - `this` keyword always represents the object that defined the arrow function.


### Intervals

- In addition to specifying that functions run when an event is triggered, we can also set functions to run after a set amount of time.

**`setInterval(function, milliseconds, param1, param2, ...)`**
- Calls a function at specified intervals (in **milliseconds**).
- Continues calling the function until clearInterval() is called, or the window is closed.
- 1 second = 1000 milliseconds.


### Local Storage
- The **localStorage** object allows you to save ***key/value*** pairs in the browser, almost like **Python dictionary**.
- `localStorage.getItem(key)`: This function searches for an entry in local storage with a given ***key***, and returns the value associated with that ***key***.
- `localStorage.setItem(key, value)`: This function sets and entry in local storage, associating the ***key*** with a ***new value***.


### API(Application Programming Interface)
- Is a structured form communication between two different applications.
- When we call to a service's API to get information other services, API will return structured data to us, often in **JSON** form.

**JavaScript Objects**
- Is very similar to a **Python dictionary**, as it allows us to store ***key-value*** pairs.

```
let person = {
    first: 'Harry',
    last: 'Potter'
};
```

**Accessing Object Properties**
1. `objectName.propertyName`
2. `objectName["propertyName"]`