# TIL 240826

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 7 Testing, CI/CD

### Testing
- One important part of the software development process is the act of Testing the code we’ve written to make sure everything runs as we expect it to. 

### Assert
- One of the simplest ways we can run tests in Python is by using the `assert` command.
- This command is followed by some expression that should be `True`.
- If the expression is `True`, nothing will happen, and if it is `False`, an ***exception*** will be thrown.
- `True` expression:
```
def square(x):
    return x * x

assert square(10) == 100

""" Output:

"""
```

- `False` expression:
```
def square(x):
    return x + x

assert square(10) == 100

""" Output:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "assert.py", line 4, in <module>
    assert square(10) == 100
AssertionError
"""
```

### Test-Driven Development
- A development style where every time you fix a bug, you add a test that checks for that bug to a growing set of tests that are run every time you make changes.
- This will help you to make sure that additional features you add to a project don’t interfere with your existing features.

### Unit Testing
- We can use the Python `unittest` library to make a process of testing a little bit easier.

```
import math

def is_prime(n):

    # We know numbers less than 2 are not prime
    if n < 2:
        return False

    # Checking factors up to sqrt(n)
    for i in range(2, int(math.sqrt(n))):

        # If i is a factor, return false
        if n % i == 0:
            return False

    # If no factors were found, return true
    return True
```
```
# Import the unittest library and our function
import unittest
from prime import is_prime

# A class containing all of our tests
class Tests(unittest.TestCase):

    def test_1(self):
        """Check that 1 is not prime."""
        self.assertFalse(is_prime(1))

    def test_2(self):
        """Check that 2 is prime."""
        self.assertTrue(is_prime(2))

    def test_8(self):
        """Check that 8 is not prime."""
        self.assertFalse(is_prime(8))

    def test_11(self):
        """Check that 11 is prime."""
        self.assertTrue(is_prime(11))

    def test_25(self):
        """Check that 25 is not prime."""
        self.assertFalse(is_prime(25))

    def test_28(self):
        """Check that 28 is not prime."""
        self.assertFalse(is_prime(28))


# Run each of the testing functions
if __name__ == "__main__":
    unittest.main()
```

- Notice that each of the functions within our `Tests` class followed a pattern:
  - The name of the functions begin with `test_`. This is necessary for the functions to be run automatically with the call to `unittest.main()`.
  - Each test takes in the `self` argument. This is **standard** when writing methods within ***Python classes***.
  - The first line of each function contains a docstring surrounded by three quotation marks. When the tests are run, the comment will be displayed as a discription of the test if it fails.
  - The next line of each of the functions contained an assertion in the form `self.assertSOMETHING`. There are many different assertions you can make including `assertTrue`, `assertFalse`, `assertEqual`, and `assertGreater`.

- After running the tests, `unittest` provides us with some useful information about what it found.
```
...F.F
```
- It gives us a series of `.`s for successes and `F`s for failures in the order our tests were written.
- Next, for each of the tests that failed, we are then given the name of the function that failed:
```
FAIL: test_25 (__main__.Tests)
```
- The descriptive comment we provided earlier:
```
Check that 25 is not prime.
```
- And a traceback for the exception:
```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "tests1.py", line 26, in test_25
    self.assertFalse(is_prime(25))
AssertionError: True is not false
```
- And finally, we are given a run through of how many tests were run, how much time they took, and how many failed:
```
Ran 6 tests in 0.001s

FAILED (failures=2)
```

### Django Testing
- In order to make sure our application works as expected, whenever we create a new application, we are automatically given a ***tests.py*** file.
- When we first open this file, we see that Django’s `TestCase` library is automatically imported:

```
from django.test import TestCase
```

- One advantage to using the `TestCase` library is that when we run our tests, an entirely new database will be created for testing purposes only.
- This is helpful because we avoid the risk of accidentally modifying or deleting existing entries in our databse and we don’t have to worry about removing dummy entries that we created only for testing.
- And then we’ll create a new class that extends the `TestCase` class we just imported. Within this class, we’ll define a `setUp` function that will be run at the start of the testing process. In this function, we’ll probably want to create. Here’s what our class will look like to start:
```
class FlightTestCase(TestCase):

    def setUp(self):

        # Create airports.
        a1 = Airport.objects.create(code="AAA", city="City A")
        a2 = Airport.objects.create(code="BBB", city="City B")

        # Create flights.
        Flight.objects.create(origin=a1, destination=a2, duration=100)
        Flight.objects.create(origin=a1, destination=a1, duration=200)
        Flight.objects.create(origin=a1, destination=a2, duration=-100)
```

- Now that we have some entries in our testing database, let’s add some functions to this class to perform some tests. 
- First, let’s make sure our departures and arrivals fields work correctly by attempting to count the number of departures (which we know should be 3) and arrivals (which should be 1) from airport AAA:
```
def test_departures_count(self):
    a = Airport.objects.get(code="AAA")
    self.assertEqual(a.departures.count(), 3)

def test_arrivals_count(self):
    a = Airport.objects.get(code="AAA")
    self.assertEqual(a.arrivals.count(), 1)
```

- Now, to run our tests, we’ll run 
```
python manage.py test
```

- The output for this is almost identical to the output we saw while using the Python `unittest` library.
```
Creating test database for alias 'default'...
System check identified no issues (0 silenced).
..FF.
======================================================================
FAIL: test_invalid_flight_destination (flights.tests.FlightTestCase)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/cleggett/Documents/cs50/web_notes_files/7/django/airline/flights/tests.py", line 37, in test_invalid_flight_destination
    self.assertFalse(f.is_valid_flight())
AssertionError: True is not false

======================================================================
FAIL: test_invalid_flight_duration (flights.tests.FlightTestCase)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/cleggett/Documents/cs50/web_notes_files/7/django/airline/flights/tests.py", line 43, in test_invalid_flight_duration
    self.assertFalse(f.is_valid_flight())
AssertionError: True is not false

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 5 tests in 0.018s

FAILED (failures=2)
Destroying test database for alias 'default'...
```

### Client Testing
- When we want to check whether or not individual web pages load as intended, we can do this by creating a `Client` object in our Django testing class.
- To do this, we’ll first have to add `Client` to our `imports`:
```
from django.test import Client, TestCase
```

- For example, let’s now add a test that makes sure that we get an HTTP response code of 200 and that all three of our flights are added to the context of a response:
```
def test_index(self):

    # Set up client to make requests
    c = Client()

    # Send get request to index page and store response
    response = c.get("/flights/")

    # Make sure status code is 200
    self.assertEqual(response.status_code, 200)

    # Make sure three flights are returned in the context
    self.assertEqual(response.context["flights"].count(), 3)
```

### [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev)
- Several frameworks have been created that help with in-browser testing, one of which is called **Selenium**.
- Using **Selenium**, we’ll be able to define a testing file in Python where we can simulate a user opening a web browser, navigating to our page, and interacting with it.
- Our main tool when doing this is known as a ***Web Driver***, which will open up a web browser on your computer.
- Note that below we use both `selenium` and `ChromeDriver`.
- **Selenium** can be installed for python by running `pip install selenium`, and **ChromeDriver** can be installed by running `pip install chromedriver-py`.

```
import os
import pathlib
import unittest

from selenium import webdriver

# Finds the Uniform Resourse Identifier of a file
def file_uri(filename):
    return pathlib.Path(os.path.abspath(filename)).as_uri()

# Sets up web driver using Google chrome
driver = webdriver.Chrome()
```

- **Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)**: Is a unique string that represents that resource.

- Now let’s take a look at how we can use this simulation to create automated tests of our page:
```
# Standard outline of testing class
class WebpageTests(unittest.TestCase):

    def test_title(self):
        """Make sure title is correct"""
        driver.get(file_uri("counter.html"))
        self.assertEqual(driver.title, "Counter")

    def test_increase(self):
        """Make sure header updated to 1 after 1 click of increase button"""
        driver.get(file_uri("counter.html"))
        increase = driver.find_element_by_id("increase")
        increase.click()
        self.assertEqual(driver.find_element_by_tag_name("h1").text, "1")

    def test_decrease(self):
        """Make sure header updated to -1 after 1 click of decrease button"""
        driver.get(file_uri("counter.html"))
        decrease = driver.find_element_by_id("decrease")
        decrease.click()
        self.assertEqual(driver.find_element_by_tag_name("h1").text, "-1")

    def test_multiple_increase(self):
        """Make sure header updated to 3 after 3 clicks of increase button"""
        driver.get(file_uri("counter.html"))
        increase = driver.find_element_by_id("increase")
        for i in range(3):
            increase.click()
        self.assertEqual(driver.find_element_by_tag_name("h1").text, "3")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    unittest.main()
```

- Now, if we run `python tests.py`, our simulations will be carried out in the browser, and then the results of the tests will be printed to the console.

### CI/CD
- Stands for ***Continuous Integration*** and ***Continuous Delivery***, is a set of software development best practices that dictate how code is written by a team of people, and how that code is later delivered to users of the application.

- **Continuous Integration**
  - Frequent merges to the main branch.
  - Automated unit testing with each merge.

- **Continuous Delivery**
  - Short release schedules, meaning new versions of an application are released frequently.

- CI/CD has become more and more popular among software development teams for a number of reasons:
  - When different team members are working on different features, many compatibility issues can arise when multiple features are combined at the same time. Continuous integration allows teams to tackle small conflicts as they come.
  - Because unit tests are run with each Merge, when a test fails it is easier to isolate the part of the code that is causing the problem.
  - Frequently releasing new versions of an application allows developers to isolate problems if they arise after launch.
  - Releasing small, incremental changes allows users to slowly get used to new app features rather than being overwhelmed with an entirely different version.
  - Not waiting to release new features allows companies to stay ahead in a competitive market.


### [Github Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)

- One popular tool used to help with ***continuous integration*** is known as **GitHub Actions**.
- **GitHub Actions** will allow us to create workflows where we can specify certain actions to be performed every time someone pushes to a git repository.
- In order to set up a **GitHub action**, we’ll use a configuration language called **YAML**.
- **YAML**: Structures its data around key-value pairs (like a ***JSON object*** or ***Python Dictionary***).
- An example of a simple **YAML** file:
```
key1: value1
key2: value2
key3:
    - item1
    - item2
    - item3
```

- Now, let’s look at an example of how we would configure a **YAML** file (which takes the form ***name.yml*** or ***name.yaml***) that works with **GitHub Actions**. To do this, I’ll create a `.github` directory in my repository, and then a workflows directory inside of that, and finally a ***ci.yml*** file within that. In that file, we’ll write:

```
name: Testing
on: push

jobs:
  test_project:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Run Django unit tests
      run: |
        pip3 install --user django
        python3 manage.py test
```

- Since this is our first time using **GitHub Actions**, let’s go through what each part of this file is doing:
  - First, we give the workflow a `name`, which in our case is Testing.
  - Next, with the `on` key, we specify when the workflow should run. In our case, we wish to perform the tests every time someone pushes to the repository.
  - The rest of the file is contained within a `jobs` key, which indicates which jobs should be run at every push.
    - In our case, the only job is `test_project`. Every job must define two componenets.
      - The `runs-on` key specifies which of **GitHub’s virtual machines** we would like our code to be run on.
      - The `steps` key provides the actions that should occur when this job is run
        - In the `uses` key we specify which GitHub action we wish to use. `actions/checkout@v2` is an action written by GitHub that we can use.
        - The `name` key here allows us to proide a description of the action we’re taking.
        - After the `run` key, we type the commands we wish to run on GitHub’s server. In our case we wish to install Django and then run the testing file.

**Github's tabs**
- **Code**: This is the tab that we’ve been using most frequently, as it allows us to view the files and folders within our directory.
- **Issues**: Here we can open and close issues, which are requests for bug fixes or new features. We can think of this as a to-do list for our application.
- **Pull Requests**: Requests from people who wish to merge some code from one branch into another one. This is a useful tool, as it allows people to perform code reviews where they comment and provide suggestions before code is integrated into the master branch.
- **GitHub Actions**: This is the tab we’ll use when working on continuous integration, as it provides logs of the actions that have taken place after each push.


### Docker
- Problems can arise in the world of software development when the configuration on your computer is different than the one your application is being run on.
- To avoid these problems, we need a way to make sure everyone working on a project is using the same environment.
- One way to do this is to use a tool called **Docker**, which is a containerization software, meaning it creates an isolated environment within your computer that can be standardized among many collaborators and the server on which your site is run.
- While **Docker** is a bit like a **Virtual Machine**, they are in fact different technologies. A virtual machine (like the one used on GitHub Actions or when you launch an AWS server) is effectively an entire virtual computer with its own operating system, meaning it ends up taking a lot of space wherever it is running.
- **Dockers**, on the other hand, work by setting up a container within an existing computer, therefore taking up less space.
-  Our first step in doing this will be to create a Docker File which we’ll name `Dockerfile`.
- Inside this file, we’ll provide instructions for how to create a ***Docker Image*** which describes the libraries and binaries we wish to include in our container.

```
FROM python:3
COPY .  /usr/src/app
WORKDIR /usr/src/app
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
CMD ["python3", "manage.py", "runserver", "0.0.0.0:8000"]
```

- `FROM python3`: this shows that we are basing this image off of a standard image in which Python 3 is installed. This is fairly common when writing a Docker File, as it allows you to avoid the work of re-defining the same basic setup with each new image.
- `COPY . /usr/src/app`: This shows that we wish to copy everything from our current directory (.) and store it in the /usr/src/app directory in our new container.
- `WORKDIR /usr/src/app`: This sets up where we will run commands within the container. (A bit like cd on the terminal)
- `RUN pip install -r requirements.txt`: In this line, assuming you’ve included all of your requirements to a file called `requirements.txt`, they will all be installed within the container.
- `CMD ["python3", "manage.py", "runserver", "0.0.0.0:8000"]`: Finally, we specify the command that should be run when we start up the container.

- Thankfully, if we wish to run a separate server for our database, we can simply add another Docker container, and run them together using a feature called ***Docker Compose***.
- This will allow two different servers to run in separate containers, but also be able to communicate with one another. To specify this, we’ll use a YAML file called `docker-compose.yml`:

```
version: '3'

services:
    db:
        image: postgres

    web:
        build: .
        volumes:
            - .:/usr/src/app
        ports:
            - "8000:8000"
```

- Specify that we’re using version `3` of ***Docker Compose***
- Outline two services:
  - `db` sets up our database container based on an image already written by **Postgres**.
  - `web` sets up our server’s container by instructing Docker to:
    - Use the Dockerfile within the current directory.
    - Use the specified path within the container.
    - Link port 8000 within the container to port 8000 on our computer.

- Now, we’re ready to start up our services with the command `docker-compose up`.
- This will launch both of our servers inside of new Docker containers.
- At this point, we may want to run commands within our Docker container to add database entries or run tests. To do this, we’ll first run `docker ps` to show all of the docker containers that are running.
- Then, well find the ***CONTAINER ID*** of the container we wish to enter and run `docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash -l`.
- This will move you inside the `usr/src/app` directory we set up within our container.
- Exit by running `CTRL-D`.