# TIL 250215

## Project: Network

## Understanding `useReducer` hook

### What is **reuducer**?

- A single function outside components with state logic, to reduce complexity and keep all logic in one easy-to-access place.

## Understanding `useCallback` hook

- is a React hook that lets you cache a funtion definition **between re-renders**.

``` javascript
    const cachedFn = useCallback(fn, dependencies)
```

## Reference

- Call `useCallback` at the top level of your component to cache a funtion definition between re-renders:

```javascript
    import { useCallback } from 'react';

    export default function ProductPage({ productId, referrer, theme }) {
    const handleSubmit = useCallback((orderDetails) => {
        post('/product/' + productId + '/buy', {
        referrer,
        orderDetails,
        });
    }, [productId, referrer]);
```

### Parameter

- `fn` : The funtion value that you want to cache. It can take any arguments and return any values. React will return (not call!) your function back to you during the initial render. On next renders, React will give you the same function again if the dependencies have not changed since the last render. Otherwise, it will give you the function that you have passed during the current render, and store it in case it can be reused later.
- `dependencies` :  The list of all reactive values referenced inside of the fn code. Reactive values include props, state, and all the variables and functions declared directly inside your component body. The list of dependencies must have a constant number of items and be written inline like `[dep1, dep2, dep3]`.

### Return

- On the initial render, `useCallback` returns the `fn` function you have passed.
- During subsequent renders, it will either return an already stored `fn`  function from the last render (if the `dependencies` haven’t changed), or return the `fn` function you have passed during this render.


### Caveat (Warning!!!)

- `useCallback` is a Hook, so you can only call it at the top level of your component or your own Hooks.
- React **will not throw away the cached function unless there is a specific reason to do that**.


## Understanding `href` in SPAs

- In traditional multiple page application(MPA), clicking a line(like `href`) causes the browser to make a new reqeust to the server, which then responds with a new page. This process reloads the entire page, which can be slow and inefficient.
- In contrast, SPAs aim to update the web page dinamically without reloading the entire page. They achieve this by using JavaScript to manage routing.

### Why use `#` for `href` in SPAs?

1. **Prevent Default Behavior** : Normally, the clicking an anchor tag navigates to a new URL, causing a page reload. When you use `#` in `href`, you are effectively telling the browser not to go anywhere when the link is clicked. Instead, `onClick` event handler you define will take care of updating the page contents dinamically.

2. **Maintain SPA Behavior** : By setting `href="#"` and managing navigation through JavaScript, you keep all the data loading and rendering within the client-side realm, preserving the fast and fluid user experience typical of SPAs. This avoids the initial delay of a full page reload and any subsequent server round trips.