# TIL 250228

## Project: Network

## QuerySet API reference

### `order_by(*fields)`

- By default, results returned by a QuerySet are ordered by the ordering tuple given by the ordering option in the model’s Meta. You can override this on a per-QuerySet basis by using the order_by method.

```python
Entry.objects.filter(pub_date__year=2005).order_by("-pub_date", "headline")
```

- The result above will be ordered by **pub_date** descending, then by **headline** ascedning. The negative sign in front of **"-pub_date"** indicates descending order.

```python
Entry.objects.order_by("?")
```

- To order randomly, use **"?"** like above.

```python
class Blog(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(max_length=100)

class Entry(models.Model):
    blog = models.ForeignKey(Blog, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
    headline = models.CharField(max_length=255)
```

- To order by a field in a different model, use the same syntax as when you are querying across model relations.
- Two `Model` in a Django application: `Blog` and `Entry`. Each `Blog` can have multiple `Entry` items associated with it.

```python
Entry.objects.order_by("blog__name", "headline")
```

1. `blog__name` :
   - `blog` : This is the field in the `Entry` model that links to the `Blog` model.
   - `__` : The double underscore acts like a bridge that let you step from one to another.
   - `name` : This is the filed in the `Blog` model. So `blog__name` means "access to the filed `name` of the `blog` related to this entry"
2. `headline` :
   - This simply refers to the `headline` filed in the `Entry` model itself.

- This query tells Django to sort (or order) all entry records first by the name of the blog they are associated with and then by their own headline within each blog group.
  - First, all entries are grouped by the name of their associated blog.
  - Then, within each of these groups, the entries are sorted by their headlines.