# TIL 250318

## Asymptotic Notation

### Big-O(O)
- Represnet an upper bound on the time as an algorithm takes to complete its execution based on the size of input. It is usually used to describe a worst-case scenario of an algorithm's performance.

### Big-Omega(Ω)
- Repersent a lower bound on the time as an algorithm takes to complete its execution based on the size of input. It is usually used to describe a best-scenario of an algorithm's performance.

### Big-Theta(Θ)
- Represent a lower bound and uppper bound are the same.


### Why might an interviewer care about your understanding of asymptotic notation?

- In real software development, software engineers can estimate a time complexity of an algorithm, when they develop some products. As data of input size goes lager, estimating time complexity is important to make their scalable system execute more efficient.
- **Sample Answer**: Asymptotic notation helps engineers evaluate and compare the efficiency of algorithms, especially for large inputs. It’s crucial for designing scalable systems and optimizing performance, which directly impacts real-world software development.


### Analyze the following code and determine its time complexity in Big-O notation. Explain your reasoning.

```python
def example(n):
    for i in range(n):
        for j in range(n):
            print(i * j)
```

- In the outer or first loop, `i` will iterate n times. And in the second nested for loop, `j` will iterate n times. So the 2 dimensional loops will iterate `n*n = n^2`. `f(n) = O(n^2)`
- **Sample Answer**: The time complexity is O(n²). There are two nested loops, each iterating n times. For each i, the inner loop runs n times, resulting in n * n = n² iterations total. The print operation is O(1), so the overall complexity is O(n²).