# TIL 250309

## CS50’s Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

## Week 8 Scalability & Security

## Scalability

- We’ll want to launch our sites so they canbe accessed by anyone on the internet. In order to do this, we run our sites on **servers**, which are physical pieces of hardware dedicated to running applications.

### Types of servers
- On-premise
- Cloud

- Benefits and Drawbacks
  - Customization: Hosting your own servers give you the ability to decide exactly how they work. More flexibility than could-based hosting.
  - Expertise: It is much simpler to host applications on the cloud than it is to maintain your own servers.
  - Cost: Server hosting sites need to make a profit, they will charge more than it costs them to maintain their on-premise servers, making could-based servers more expensive.
  - Scalability: Scaling is typically easier when hosting on the cloud. Cause when visitors on the website suddenly increase over the expectation, in case of on premise server we would have to order and setup servers physically to handle the increasing request. On the other hands, most cloud host sites will allow us to rent server space flexibly, paying based on how much action your site sees.


## Scaling
1. Vertical Scaling: When our servers are overwhelmed, we can simply buy and build a lager server. However this strategy is limited, as there is an upper limit on how powerful a single server can be.
2. Horizontal Scaling: Buy and build new servers and then split the request among our multiple servers when our previous servers are overwhelmed.


## Load Balancing

- 

1. Random
2. Round-Robin
3. The Fewest Connections


### To solve the problem of sessions

1. Sticky Sessions
2. Database Sessions
3. Client-Side Sessions


## Autoscaling

- Typical method in cloud-based servers. When the requests are getting more and more, it exceeds to handle by the servers, the number of servers being used by your site can grow and shrink based on the number of requests it gets.

### Server Failure


## Scaling Databases

- 

1. Vertical Partitioning
2. Horizontal Partitioning


### Data Replication

1. Single-Primary Replication
2. Multi-Primary Replication
   1. Update Conflict
   2. Uniqueness Conflict
   3. Delete Conflict


## Caching

- The idea of storing some information in a more accessible location.

1. Per-View Caching
2. Template-Fragment Caching
3. Low-Level Cache API


## Security

### Git and Github


## HTML


## HTTPS

### Secret-Key Cryptography

### Public-Key Crpytography


## Database

### APIs

- API Keys
- Rate Limiting
- Route Authentication

### Environment Varibables


## JavaScript

### Cross-Site Request Forgery

